{"filter":false,"title":"Untitled1","tooltip":"/copywriting.txt/Untitled1","undoManager":{"mark":0,"position":0,"stack":[[{"start":{"row":0,"column":0},"end":{"row":100,"column":2},"action":"insert","lines":["","Good vs bad invitations: the mistakes other people make when choosing wedding stationery that you don't need to&hellip; ","","","","Picture the scene&hellip; a plain, white envelope with a hastily-scribbled address plops through the letterbox. It's been raining, so the writing is smudged and the postcode is wrong. The paper feels cheap. Opening it, you find a flimsy invitation with a cringeworthy photo of your friend and her fiance on the front. The photo looks washed-out and there's too much flash: your friend's skin looks shinier than a helium balloon&hellip; ","","&hellip;so what's your impression of your friend and her special day so far? The words cheap, hasty, careless and tacky come to mind. Sure, you love her to bits, but your subconcious still makes judgements: I don't need to tell you that you're judged on appearance every day: that's life. Yet when planning a wedding, so many people risk giving their special day a bad first impression with poorly-chosen, unprofessional stationery: and there's no second chance to make a first impression&hellip; ","","&hellip;would you wear an ill-fitting, badly-sewn wedding dress? No. Yet just like your clothes, you'll be judged on the quality of your invitations&mdash;it's the first chance guests will have to form an opinion of what your big day is going to be like and whether it's something for them to get excited about. Opening an invitation should feel like opening a special gift. Invitations tell guests what to expect: that's why it's very important that you get them spot-on.","","Beauty is only skin deep","","When choosing your invitation, image is important, but you also need to remember that your invitations serve many practical functions that most people foolishly overlook. So ask yourself, what's their purpose?","","- To invite specific people to your wedding","- To get people excited and feel honoured to be invited","- To Set the tone of your wedding using design and language&mdash;will it be fun and frollicks, or serious and traditional?","- To make it easy for guests to RSVP, and therefore easy for you to plan for numbers without constantly chasing them up","- To reduce stress for you by providing guests with all the information they need about your big day so they don't have to hassle you with questions","- To give friends and family, and yourself, a keepsake of your day to remember","","Reply cards","","Your guests are human, and like most humans, they're more likely to do something if it's easy and pain-free. That's why reply cards are important&mdash;no reply cards means no replies: and no replies means, among the other 101 things you need to do, you're going to have the hassle of chasing your guests to find out who is, or isn't, coming. A pre-addressed reply card increases your chances of getting responses quickly as it is very easy for your guests just tick a box and post the card. Invitations with reply cards get four times as many responses as invitations without. ","","","Address your guests by name!","","Personalisation is the future. By explicitly addressing your invitations to \"Sarah, Jane & Jenny\", it takes the guesswork away from your guests: Sarah knows straight away that she can bring her flatmate and daughter. If it just says \"Sarah & Guest\", she knows she is invited and can bring any guest. An invitation that isn't personalised makes it awkward for your guests to know who they can and can't bring along (and awkward for you to know who they are bringing along too), but if you address your guests individually, you'll make things easier for yourself and your guests from the start: it avoids that difficult conversation when they ask you, \"Can I bring the kids/boyfriend I met last week?\".","","Save time, avoid damaging the invitation by writing on envelope or card, less mistakes. ","","","Unclear instructions.","","where's the venue? They'll need the postcode for their sat-nav, otherwise you and your bridesmaids are going to have the joy of answering twenty phone calls on the morning of your wedding as lost guests phone you when they've gone up the wrong country lane. What do they wear? Explaining the dress code is important if you don't want Auntie Edna turning up in that bright puce dress with the ostentatious hat. Can children come? Can they give vouchers or money instead of buying you another garlic press? The number of details you provide is inversely proportional to the stress you'll experience (the more details you give, less stress for you!). Sometimes it's even worth providing an additional instruction leaflet for all the extra stuff.","","A memory for you and your children","--Special box containing your invitation for you to keep. ","","Form: typesetting, print quality, vellum, envelopes, raised wax ink, paper quality, personalisation, co-ordination, washed out colours, colours that don't match, clipart, ","","Functionality: reply card to ilicit quick response, information sheet, wording sets tone of wedding, guest names are explicit invites, addressing the envelopes saves time, vellum stops indentations, wax ink is waterproof and colours remain solid not washed out as it is not soluble. Keepsake.  ","","","","","","","Bad typesetting","","--","","Don't let ugly typesetting make your invitations amateurish and tacky: sometimes when you look at something, it just looks professional, chic and expensive but if anyone was to ask you, you wouldn't be able to explain why--it's just a feeling. But a lot of work goes into making you have that feeling: it's all in the detail--care and attention to the little things that, on their own don't seem very significant but combined make a massive difference to the way people see and perceive your invitations--either as cheap and tacky or expensive and elegant. ","","Subtle touches such as careful alignment and spacing, the use of bullet points and ornamental separations between paragraphs, may not sound like much but they all add up to create a stunning layout that you would expect from a Royal invitation. You won't get the same degree of",""," Free fonts that have been downloaded from the internet are free for a reason: they don't have the same refinements that will give your invitations a polished, superior look. ","","","Difference between a newspaper like The Sun and The Times? Or between Lidl and Waitrose?","","--","","Nothing screams bargain-basement like cheap clipart! Did you get your invitations in a multipack from a pound store? There's nothing worse than seeing invitations where the so-called \"designers\" have searched for \"wedding bells\" in Google Images and then downloaded a fuzzy image that has probably been used 1000 times over. It's cheap, it's tacky, and it's not the sort of feeling you want to convey for your wedding invitations. ","","--","","Poor print quality. flawless","","The ink is effectively indelible. Even with a page hot off the printer I can't intentionally smear the ink.","","Use a sheet of vellum that is used tastefully to separate cards and avoid the ink imprinting on other surfaces. ","","We use a printing method known as solid ink: what it means for your invitations is that the print has a slightly raised quality--if you run your finger over the card you can actually feel where the ink is raised--and the colours and printing are identical regardless of the type or colour of card you are using. Blacks are sharp and clear, colours are vibrant and bright. See what Wikipedia says about solid ink printing:","","--","","","--","","Nasty envelopes","","Nothing lets a good invitation down like a bad envelope: don't you know that packaging is important? Isn't there something satisfying about opening a perfectly-wrapped present, tied with a bow and adorned with a tag? That's why companies spend millions of pounds wrapping things like rice in elegant, carefully-designed foil (and shoving an extra £1 on the price in the process!). Needless to say, boring, plain envelopes with hastily hand-scribbled addresses will not do justice to what is inside. Opening an invitation is an experience. The envelope is the most important part of that experience:  it's the first thing your guests will see and when it arrives through the letterbox and you want them to be impressed and excited to find out what's inside, and not think it's another badly-written birthday card from Aunty Emily.","","The envelopes in our collection are highly unusual in that they are handmade-to-order, printed inside and out with matching, intricate designs that compliment the invitations they contain, along with your chosen monogram. Each envelope can also be individually addressed with your guest names and addresses.","","-- Delivered (and damaged) by Royal Mail","","Ever wondered what happens to your invitations when they go in the post box? Does a magic fairy with clean hands magically fly them to their destination? No. They are handled by at least a dozen different people, pressed between rollers, rained-upon and X-rayed&mdash;just for starters.  ","","","-- ","Coordination. ","","Every item of your stationery should match.  Would you wear tracksuit bottoms with a shirt and tie? Nothing screams unprofessional like a venue map on an information sheet that's been cut and pasted from Google Maps. ","","","","--"],"id":1}]]},"ace":{"folds":[],"scrolltop":591,"scrollleft":0,"selection":{"start":{"row":23,"column":0},"end":{"row":24,"column":578},"isBackwards":true},"options":{"guessTabSize":true,"useWrapMode":true,"wrapToView":true},"firstLineState":{"row":321,"mode":"ace/mode/text"}},"timestamp":1462982358861,"hash":"5890ef8725a4d69e73b9ac055b4d55bf4b733d41"}